---
title: "Integrated planning decisions in the broiler chicken supply chain"
date: 2020-08-12
classes: wide
categories:
  - journal article
tags:
  - Integrated planning
  - Agriculture
  - Broiler
---

**Alfaima L. Solano-Blanco**, Jaime E. González, Luis O. Gómez-Rueda, Jhon J. Vargas-Sánchez,Andrés L. Medaglia

---

### Abstract

In the poultry industry, the meat market requires a careful coordination of the broiler chicken supply chain comprising breeders, hatcheries, farms, slaughterhouses, wholesale, and retail vendors. Aside from the inherent challenges of coordinating a supply chain, animal husbandry systems face additional complex tasks. The lack of integrated decisions within the poultry chain could lead to a production plan that (a) does not comply with the biosecurity standards required in meat production for human consumption at the farms; (b) violates the production and inventory capacities at the slaughterhouses; and (c) does not meet the demand of customers. To streamline the supply chain, we propose a mixed-integer linear programming model that supports production planning and scheduling decisions in broiler chicken production facilities. In addition, we embedded the mixed-integer programming model in a rolling-horizon scheme to improve scalability and to avoid the myopic effect of time-indexed optimization models that put too much emphasis on a specific time period. We present the results of a case study in a poultry company in Santa Marta (Colombia), where we reach profit improvements that range from 7% to 57% with a reduction in inventory costs that range from 30% to 60%, while simultaneously meeting stringent technical, tactical, and biosecurity constraints.

<span class="__dimensions_badge_embed__" data-doi="10.1111/itor.12861" data-style="small_circle"></span><script async src="https://badge.dimensions.ai/badge.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

<sup>Published as: <br>
Solano-Blanco, A.L., González, J.E., Gómez-Rueda, L.O., Vargas-Sánchez, J.J. and Medaglia, A.L. (2022), Integrated planning decisions in the broiler chicken supply chain. Intl. Trans. in Op. Res.. https://doi.org/10.1111/itor.12861
</sup>

---

[(View all publications)]({% link _pages/research.md %})